Testing types


1) Manual Testing
2) functional Testing
3) Integration Testing
4) Unit Testing

points:
• Unit tests should not require access to any external systems such as network, databases, etc. 
• All external systems such as database, file server, etc. are mocked out using specific test APIs and test data.


 Integration tests verify that interaction between multiple components (applications, services, modules, etc.) is working as expected.

Continous Integration

what is static and dynamic tests

static test: can be done without using code --->> compile time testing or something like that????

dynamic test: when the code is in operation mode, and done in run time environment.

Infrastructure as code: A fundamental principle of DevOps is to treat infrastructure
 the same way developers treat code.

The default VPC on both AWS and GCP will include an internet gateway.
An internet gateway enables your instances to connect to the internet.

A VPC allows you to create or configure following: • firewall • routing table • public or private subnets • network gateway


Network interface
You can create a network interface, attach it to an instance, detach it from an instance, 
and attach it to another instance. The attributes of a network interface follow it as it's
attached or detached from an instance and reattached to another instance. When you move a 
network interface from one instance to another, network traffic is redirected to the new 
instance. 
You can also modify the attributes of your network interface, including changing its security groups and managing its IP addresses.

Every instance in a VPC has a default network interface, called the primary network interface (eth0). You cannot detach a primary network 
interface from an instance. You can create and attach additional network interfaces. The maximum number of network interfaces that you can
 use varies by instance type. For more information, see IP Addresses Per Network Interface Per Instance Type. 

ref: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-eni.html

Route table

ref: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Route_Tables.html


Internet Gateways
An internet gateway is a horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC component that allows communication between instances 
in your VPC and the internet. It therefore imposes no availability risks or bandwidth constraints on your network traffic. 
An internet gateway serves two purposes: to provide a target in your VPC route tables for internet-routable traffic, and to
perform network address translation (NAT) for instances that have been assigned public IPv4 addresses. 

ref: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/VPC_Internet_Gateway.html

horizontal scale: adding new resources
vertical scale: adding more computation power

Destination => IP address/CIDR range
Target => Where you want to send the traffic for the specified destination 
(e.g. if destination is my local subnet, mention target as "local")

Cloud Computing:
“... a style of computing in which scalable and elastic IT-enabled capabilities are
 delivered as a service to external customers using Internet technologies.”

" a standardized IT capability (services, software, or infrastructure) delivered via
  Internet technologies in a pay-per-use, self-service way.”

Cloud Characteristics
1) On Demand Self Service: freedom of self provsion, can access coud based IT resources,
                          Once configured, then automate, self configured

2) Broad Netowrk Access: wide, ubiqutous access using devices,transport protocols,interfaces,security nd technologies;

3) Resource(multiTenancy): multitenancy--->  char of a software program that enables instance of a program to serve multiple consumer(tenants),
                           each is isolated from the other
                           ----> cloud providers pools IT resources to serve multiple consumers by using multi tenancy 
                           models(models rely on virtualization) 
4) Elasticity: automatic scaling


CLOUD DELIVERY MODELS

1) IaaS: INfrastructure as service,

---------to Study for Sure---------

linux comamnds

read write access , all the rigths

NoSQL, CAP theorem

TCP vs UDP

EC2
database
S3 
netwr


 ------------- doubts-----------

 1)  Historically, server configuration and application deployment has been a 
 predominantly a manual process. Environments become nonstandard, and reproducing an environment when issue arises is difficult.

2) destination vs target'

